[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: One of
the most fascinating works
I've come across in the
last few decades of research
was a book titled
"Thunderbolts of the Gods."
In it, authors David
Talbott and Walter Thornhill
made a solid case for
the different alignment
of the planets in ancient
times, an alignment that
allowed the ancient
civilizations
to see cosmic events
with their naked eye.
More so, they captured the
events in rock art, rock art
that we have overlooked
as primitive,
when in fact, it's giving us a
fascinating history of Earth's
past.
David Talbott is here today
to share his findings on this.
And I have, I've looked forward
to meeting you for a long time,
as we found out everybody at
Gaiam's been looking forward
to your arrival.
>>DAVID TALBOTT: I'm
very glad to be here.
>>REGINA: Yes.
I mean, when I first looked
through "Thunderbolts
of the Gods," just
the first imagery,
I thought, it just strikes
you so deeply, how arrogant
that we have
dismissed all of what
we call the primitive
artworks throughout all
the past cultures in the world.
It's not just
endemic to one area.
We overlooked it all.
What a mistake, as
we're going to find out.
There are the same images
showing up again and again,
40,000 years ago, 20,000.
I don't know if it goes
as recently as 10,000.
You can clarify
some of that for me.
>>TALBOTT: Perhaps so, yeah.
>>REGINA: "Thunderbolts
of the Gods,"
let's start with
the thunderbolt.
>>TALBOTT: Oh, that's
an incredible image
to start with, because
it had this value for us.
After I had been
working diligently
for a couple of decades,
maybe a bit more
than that, to reconstruct the
influences on human imagination
at the birth of world
mythology, and symbolism,
and the great
religious traditions,
what was it that was
acting on human imagination
to provoke this outpouring
of images, all of which
looked so absurd?
And gradually--
it's a long story--
but I had come to a
sense of integrity
around mythic archetypes.
The archetypes are patterns
that shouldn't be there.
For more reasons than
one, actually, they
shouldn't be there.
One reason is they
don't point to anything
in common experience.
And another is what they do
point to appears ludicrous.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>TALBOTT: And everybody
knows that there
are mythic archetypes.
But very few people
have actually
asked about events in
the natural world that
might have something to
do with this outpouring
of symbolic imagery.
But I was working
with a possibility
of extraordinary natural
events in ancient times.
So I was asking
that question just
in the natural course
of the investigation.
What unusual events in an
unusual solar system history
provoked these
mythic archetypes?
And that question
alone never stopped
opening up new doors and
windows of investigation
and adding to my confidence
that there's actually
a unified story to tell.
>>REGINA: Well, in
particular, when
you start adding the
newer technology,
cosmological technology,
Hubble and the like,
where we're now able to
actually glimpse into, well,
through a lens, but glimpse into
the phenomena that's out there,
that we are no longer able
to see with our naked eye.
It's validating the rock art.
>>TALBOTT: Well,
and you asked me
about the cosmic
thunderbolt. And I
should have drawn that
to a decisive point
in the history of the research.
>>REGINA: OK, let
me give you this.
This is out of your book.
>>TALBOTT: Yeah.
>>REGINA: "It is the thunderbolt
that steers the universe."
We have a beautiful
image of this.
Now, let's talk about that.
>>TALBOTT: Indeed.
The cosmic thunderbolt
was, for me, my bridge
to the research of
Wall Thornhill, who
is the premier investigator
within the electric universe
community.
There are many others,
but Wall Thornhill
came to Portland,
Oregon late in 1996.
And he had seen these
reconstructions of my own.
And he was so convinced of the
meaning of that reconstruction,
that he stayed in my
office for 30 days
to persuade me that these
were electric discharge
phenomena, his specialty.
And I was completely persuaded.
For this reason, once
it became clear to me
that the mythic thunderbolt
in the antique world
was a bridge between
the electric universe
and my own work, we had the most
natural convergence between us.
So "Thunderbolts of
the Gods" actually
gives us a point of
common discussion.
Because, as you said, the Hubble
telescope and other telescopes
are now looking out across
the entire electromagnetic
spectrum.
And they're seeing
spectacular events in the sky.
And guess what?
They reveal similarities
to the cosmic thunderbolt.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>TALBOTT: And
this is well worth
investigating because,
I mean, I can tell you
no one historically
wondering about what
was acting on human
imagination ever-- ever-- even
dreamt of something
electrical in the sky.
>>REGINA: Yeah, once
you point it out.
>>TALBOTT: Inspiring
these images,
once it's open for discussion,
everybody can see it.
And that's what we're
experiencing right now.
>>REGINA: That's why your
work is so beautiful.
>>TALBOTT: Well,
there's this sense
now of a spectacular
unification of thought
now about the origins
of human religions,
institutional
interpretations of things
that have made no sense to us,
all of the ritual practices,
the magical practices,
the superstitions,
the rock art, as you said,
all the great artistic motifs
that dominated the early
phases of human history,
the beginnings of
languages, and pictographs
that are inseparable from
those artistic traditions,
the pictographs evolving
into abstractions that
become alphabets, and so on.
This is just such an
interesting field,
because in the points
of agreement between all
of the ancient
cultures, there are
certain forms that stand out.
Now one, for example,
is this stupendous wheel
turning in the sky,
just a wheel in the sky
and an axle of the wheel.
And spokes that
are the extension
of a star that is the hub
of the wheel with the axle
in the center of it.
I mean, just describing it
in words, many people who
are familiar with ancient
art, they'll say, oh, yeah,
well that is it.
There's the rim of
the wheel, the axles.
There's the hub, and
then there's the axle.
But did you know
that the axle was
identified as the Warrior-Hero?
Well, what does that mean?
The moment you recognize that,
you have libraries of evidence
that are opening up to you.
And then you hear that,
well, that star was
identified as the planet Venus.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>TALBOTT: And
you see, there are
these streamers
that actually are
suggestive of
electric discharge.
There's a symmetry
to them, and there
is symmetry to electric
discharge activity.
What was happening to the
planet Venus that identified it
as the hub and the spokes of
this spectacular turning wheel
in the sky?
And then you begin
to notice, well,
this wasn't just an esoteric
thought that occurred to them.
They were building
temples in cities,
and they were using this
wheel as the model for them.
These were the wheel
cities, and so on.
So all of this
monumental activity,
which was fundamentally
commemorative-- a monument
is a commemoration of something.
And we just draw blanks when
we look back at this stuff.
We don't see commemoration
of anything meaningful.
>>REGINA: No, not at all.
It just looks like
primitive art.
And partially because,
even as children,
what are some of the most
common things we draw?
It would be a sun, a
sun like a spoked wheel.
It would be little
five-pointed stars.
These are the most natural
expressions, globally
of children around
the world, that we
start drawing as soon
as we're able to hold
our pencils in our hands.
>>TALBOTT: This is in the area
of more speculation, lower
level of confidence than
the reconstruction itself.
But there's evidence that
the events and the formations
in the sky that
were experienced,
persisted in the human psyche
as subconscious strata.
I mean, this is what
Carl Jung was saying.
But he never wondered where
did these archetypes come from.
But we're simply saying, hey,
extraordinary natural events
provoked an outpouring
of human imagination.
And those are the
mythic archetypes.
>>REGINA: Well, and
as above, so below.
>>TALBOTT: Exactly.
>>REGINA: You cannot disconnect
our electrical matrix with
the cosmos.
>>TALBOTT: There must be much
more to that connectivity
than we've even dreamt of.
>>REGINA: We're going to
take a look at a little video
about the origins of humans,
because we can't forget us
in the whole mix too.
>>TALBOTT: Excellent.
>>REGINA: OK?
>>TALBOTT: How did
human history begin?
The evidence may seem too
complex for generalization.
Yet all of history can be
stated as just two stories.
First, came the
story of mythology,
filled with cosmic dramas
and celestial wonders.
We lived in the
presence of the gods.
It was the gods who determined
the fate of the world,
demanding allegiance,
even as they called humans
to sacrifice.
The gods were unpredictable.
When angry, they
went to war, or they
destroyed their own creation.
Over time, however, man's
quest for deeper meaning
in the myths ignited sparks
of spiritual awakening.
And it was from these sparks
that the great religions arose.
But all of the world's religions
shared a taproot in mythology.
And not one freed
itself entirely
from the momentum
of the first story.
The second story arose from
doubt, as philosophers, poets,
and naturalists began to
lose faith in the myths.
And some stopped believing
in the gods altogether.
That was because direct
experience under a familiar
and highly predictable
sky gave no support
to the archaic myths.
Skepticism inspired
closer attention
to nature, the
essential requirement
for the rise of
science and technology
that would change the world.
Thus, the heroic completion
of the second story,
rational science rising to
vanquish myth and magic.
And so, the full
sweep of human history
comes down to just two stories
in competition, a cliche,
science versus
myth and religion.
Well into the 20th
century, it seemed
that we were forced to choose.
But a few have wondered,
could the myths
harbor a truth that we
have missed, something yet
to be discovered, a
message for science
hidden in the myths and
symbols of deepest antiquity?
>>REGINA: That was
absolutely beautiful.
OK, before we go
any further-- I love
that video-- Velikovsky's
hypothesis about the origins
of humankind rocked your world.
Now, let's just set this
conversation up with why?
>>TALBOTT: Well, at the
core of Velikovsky's work--
I mean, this was the
culminating work, really,
in his life-- was the idea that
the planetary system that we
know today is new.
Planets haven't always
moved on these courses.
Science has been saying,
with full confidence,
that planets have always
moved on these courses.
So science, as a whole,
did not take kindly
to Velikovsky's pronouncement
that the planet Venus was new
and that it was
formerly a comet,
and it was devastating in its
impact on all of humanity.
And to say this, he
committed a crime.
He used ancient
myths, and legends,
and primitive
astronomical accounts
to verify the
claimed role of Venus
as a world-threatening comet.
And that was not permissible.
And so Velikovsky not only
saw his number one bestseller
dropped by the
publisher, Macmillan.
But this was a very
distinguished scientist,
a colleague of Sigmund Freud
and of Albert Einstein,
for example, who lost
all of his credibility
in the eyes of
mainstream scientists.
And that's a story unto itself,
the devastating impact that
had on Velikovsky personally.
But the space age, fortunately,
followed the publication
of "Worlds in Collision."
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>TALBOTT: And the thing
about facts coming back to us
from space is that
they didn't lend
any veracity to the ideas that
were used against Velikovsky.
I mean, this is just
the historic record.
We can no more say that
planets have always
moved on the same
courses as they do today.
I mean, all of the
historical evidence now,
as we begin to actually
look at it systematically
and logically,
rationally, the evidence
says that civilization
as a whole
emerged out of
wholesale catastrophe.
That was on their
minds day and night.
It's all in the mythology,
and mythology has
an explanation and
concrete experiences,
concrete forms in the sky,
concrete sequences of events.
And all we need to do
is pose the question.
That's my message in a nutshell.
We just pose the question,
because Velikovsky
forged a path for us with his
claims about the planet Venus.
He noticed that
different cultures
were using different words
and different symbols.
But they were all within the
context of these cultures'
symbols and words for comets.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And this is really your work.
And what you're
looking for is to find
the consistency between
this global imagery
and these global stories.
And you're saying
science really has
been foolish to totally
dismiss these consistencies
throughout our history and
throughout our religions
and cultures.
>>TALBOTT: But we
can, I think, be
sympathetic with that mistake.
There's a fundamental
error of perception.
But we can appreciate
it in one sense.
It's all absurd.
I mean, just consider
the absurdities
of the ancient myth.
I mean, the absurdity of a
dragon attacking a village.
Follow that absurdity
backwards, and you
get to a much bigger absurdity.
That dragon was actually
attacking the world.
The world is progressively
reduced by storytelling,
that archaic world.
So now this is our village
was attacked by this dragon,
and it carried off the princess.
>>REGINA: But cosmologically,
what was the dragon?
>>TALBOTT: It was this
huge and terrifying form
of the comet Venus.
Now, I'm oversimplifying
everything here,
because there was a dynamic
relationship between plasma
phenomena centered on
Venus and a connection
to the planet Mars.
This, you have to get into
the reconstruction a bit
to see that that is so.
But Venus was the
mother of all comets.
>>REGINA: Terrifying
in the skies
to the natives of the day.
>>TALBOTT: Terrifying,
and everything
that the ancient
peoples ever said
about comets was
planted in their minds
by the Great Comet Venus.
So a comet appears
into view, oh my,
god, the world is going
to come to an end.
>>REGINA: But that's
collective memory on some--
>>TALBOTT: Its collective
memory, exactly so.
Every culture was influenced
by the same human experience.
And Venus was a comet.
So Venus was a comet,
and the imagery
that conditioned all of our
doomsday fears about comets
can be traced right
back to the Great Comet.
And when they say, the
comet appears in the sky,
and the king is going to die.
The kingdom is going to fall.
I mean, that's the story
of the Great Comet.
And it was Venus,
the eye, heart,
and soul of this
stupendous power
that Velikovsky
identified as Saturn.
So these planets are inseparably
connected to each other.
You can't take a myth
about the Warrior-Hero,
identify it with
Mars, and stop there.
No.
You have to see the
Warrior-Hero was the consort
of the goddess who was Venus.
The goddess Venus was originally
the eye, heart, and soul
of a universal sovereign figure,
a towering form in the sky,
identified as the primeval sun
ruling before the present sun.
Now, this is a global
convergence of myth,
and the planets cannot be
separated from each other.
That's the heart of it.
>>REGINA: OK.
So from there, we're going
to go into the first story,
second story, leading
to the third story.
And you can do a brief overview
of, yeah, essentially story
one.
It was the gods who determined
the fate of the world.
Then we'll go to story two and
then to the age of rationalism.
OK?
>>TALBOTT: Rationalism is
kind of like the second story.
So, OK, the first
story is the story
which gave rise to the
birth of the civilizations.
As I was saying, it's the only
thing that was on their minds,
these spectacular cosmic
events being reenacted
and a desperate urge to
remember, not to forget,
and to recover the Golden
Age, recover connections
to the gods, maintain
a kind of innocence
in the eyes of the gods, to be
the ones that the gods favor.
>>REGINA: To go back
into the Golden Age
and release all the struggle.
>>TALBOTT: Yeah, and to
be the children of God.
There's the--
>>REGINA: That was it.
>>TALBOTT: To be the chosen
people, quite frankly.
>>REGINA: To go back to
pre-cataclysmic times.
>>TALBOTT: Exactly.
And every collective activity
of the early civilizations
was guided by the
myth-making epoch.
That's all it was.
It was self-serving.
And myths and symbols
became progressively
elaborated to make our
history cosmically important.
So we became the children of
the primeval universal sovereign
power.
>>REGINA: So everything
was inextricably
tied to the gods, i.e., the
planets, the stars, the cosmos.
>>TALBOTT: Everything was.
All of the regalia
of kings, the weapons
of warriors, that's the
connection of the first story.
Everything that was
being said collectively
was a reflection of
the myth-making epoch.
But it was all
preposterous when seen
with a degree of
rational independence.
>>REGINA: Let's talk about
rational Aristotle materials
[INAUDIBLE] and
story number two,
>>TALBOTT: Aristotle
is a good figure
for that, because he carried
forward certain persuasions,
like persuasions about comets
and the definitions of comets,
and so on.
But he wanted nature, as we
know it, to be the guide.
And the naturalist Seneca,
for example, they all
wanted to redeem the present
experience that didn't fit
well with the myths, and so on.
But well, what does all of
this experience of nature mean?
It doesn't find any real
explanation in these stories.
So the stories are not
finding any support
in the later
experience of nature.
Yeah, in a current experience.
We look out at the stars.
The planets aren't
these towering forms.
There are no dragons.
So the seeming absurdity of
myth, as it began to stand out,
caused doubt about the myths.
Now, I mean, a poet like
Ovid, he was so respectful
of the myths, but he couldn't
help laughing at times.
And so, he would, in fact,
drop his comic line and say,
"But to the myths
we must be true."
So there was this respect,
and that's what he was doing.
He was passing on the
stories, metamorphose,
the gods metamorphosing
from one thing to another.
It's all kind of comical.
But this was the perspective
in the classical era,
the introduction of rationalism,
and a naturalistic philosophy
wanting the way we experience
nature now to tell us
what to think about things.
The problem is that that
progressively removes
any credibility for the myths.
>>REGINA: Well, it
removes all history.
>>TALBOTT: Yeah.
The myths, in
particular, because they
don't fit into anything and
the classical philosophers
not really even
being in a position
to reconstruct what was actually
happening behind the myths,
the mythology was
fated of necessity,
you might say, to fall
into complete disrepute.
And that is the way
philosophy and then
science arose, with
a first mission
to rid ourselves of this
nonsense, this storytelling.
And that succeeded.
>>REGINA: That was
story number two.
>>TALBOTT: Yeah, story
number two was, hey,
we're rational people.
We can see the world.
We can see what
this is all about.
>>REGINA: Look at
this silly art.
>>TALBOTT: Forget these
silly myths, and so on.
Come on, we're grownups, now.
>>REGINA: I was wondering
about this child-like art?
>>TALBOTT: Yeah.
Yeah.
So that did create a
window for the explosion
of scientific exploration
where the elders
and the traditionalists
are not going
to tell us what we are
permitted to study, and so on.
And there's no
religious oversight
of what we're doing, telling
us what to believe in.
And so that was
actually the opening
for the scientific revolution,
which of course, blossomed
completely and gave rise to
overconfidence in the sciences,
I believe.
And they forgot to ask a
completely legitimate question.
Well, what caused
all of these stories
that we find so ridiculous?
There has to have
been a provocation.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>TALBOTT: Yeah, there has
to have been some reason why
these absurd ideas came
into human experience
and just dominated
human history.
>>REGINA: And continued
being passed down
throughout the ages.
>>TALBOTT: Yeah, and I
mean, with this huge power.
And why mythic archetypes?
Why common patterns?
These ancient civilizations
weren't talking to each other.
So if there's an integral
story beneath all this clutter
and confusion of
absurdities, there's
actually a coherent
story that we can tell,
you can't get away from having
to address and acknowledge
that.
And that, in effect,
is all we're saying.
There is a story there.
There are protocols for
drawing reliable conclusions
from the convergence of
testimony globally, points
of agreement between
different cultures.
>>REGINA: So that's
story number three.
>>TALBOTT: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Could it be that
by dismissing the myths,
we've dismissed some
essential ancient truths?
>>TALBOTT: Yeah.
Our history, the
[INAUDIBLE] we've
come to completely
misunderstand the forces that
acted on human imagination
at the dawn of history.
And the third story is appealing
to people who are, number one,
not certain that science
has the picture right,
and not certain that
institutionalized religions
have the picture right,
strongly suspecting
that if we drop our allegiances,
our dogmatic allegiances
to these two, the religion
versus science thing,
it just dissolves
in front of you,
if you actually allow
the deeper questions in.
>>REGINA: Right, right.
>>TALBOTT: And people are
actually ready for this.
>>REGINA: I think they are.
I mean, that's what's so
beautiful about this work
that you've put together
here, you and Wall Thornhill.
I mean, you're actually
showing how the cosmos has been
reflected throughout history.
And there is cross-cultural
agreement, as you say.
And that is critical to giving
credence to this story again.
>>TALBOTT: That's the key.
And the process of
reasoning from evidence
can be spelled out in detail.
And following the protocol for
drawing reliable conclusions
from unreliable witnesses,
just like a detective would do.
You know how a detective--
>>REGINA: Right, right.
>>TALBOTT: Well, they're not
all saying the same thing,
but all 5, all 10 said this.
It's very specific.
That can't be false.
They weren't talking
to each other.
Now, the early cultures
weren't talking
to each other either, so highly
concrete points of agreement.
For example, the Warrior-Hero
descends to the underworld,
and it's in connection
with the formation
of a great cosmic
mountain or a world pillar
rising along the world axis.
Well, that's so specific.
If that doesn't have a reason,
a cause, then something just
isn't adding up at all.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>TALBOTT: It has
to have a cause,
because the evidence,
the stories are there.
And they couldn't be
there by accident.
>>REGINA: So I'd like to
go into some of these.
One of them is, and it's
on page 2122 in the book,
it's images of plasma discharge
as depicted in ancient stone
art.
>>TALBOTT: Oh, this
probably would take us
right into the most important
juncture in the development
of my own research.
I had converged with
Wall Thornhill in the mid
to late '90s.
And I was aware of incongruities
in rock art, many of which
did not make sense to me.
Because what I had
reconstructed didn't touch them.
And yet, I would
find pointers that
would say these rock art
images are very important.
And for me, there was one
rock art image in particular,
and it was called
"The Chain of Arrows."
I mean, I called it
And the chain of arrows is a
worldwide motif, by the way.
It's not just North
America, though it's
all over North America.
But a warrior launches
an arrow up into the sky.
And then he launches another
one, which fixes itself
in the previous one.
And you get this conic,
embedded cone form.
>>REGINA: Is this petroglyph
from Kayenta, Arizona?
>>TALBOTT: Well, it's
getting right to that.
>>REGINA: It's
getting to it, OK.
>>TALBOTT: So there was
a chain of arrows theme
that I was very interested in.
>>REGINA: And this is
from all over the world?
Yes, everywhere.
>>TALBOTT: It is actually
all over the world.
It has different forms.
But the chain of arrows is
one form that is quite global.
So it wasn't just something
originated in America
and spread across North America.
Well, it's in South America too.
But then if you find it
in Africa, which you do,
and in the South Pacific,
which you do, and then you see,
well, the chain of
arrows is really not
any different than
that world tree
with the notches in
its trunk, and so on.
There's a whole-- the flared
skirt of the mother goddess,
and so on.
You see the flared skirt
of the mother goddess.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
one arrow embedded
in the other and the other.
>>TALBOTT: Yeah.
It's the same
underlying experience,
different mythic interpretation.
So I focused in on this
chain of arrows motif
and deduced from
hundreds-- I mean,
that there's no exaggeration
in this-- hundreds
of subtle connections
between the chain of arrows
and another mythic theme,
the ladder of heaven.
And then I saw that, well,
they can't be separate.
So whatever caused that
embedded cone form,
it had to have divided
into a stack of toruses.
So I had this clearly in
mind, almost simultaneous
with a discovery that in the
story of the chain of arrows,
the chain of arrows becomes
a ladder to the sky.
It becomes the
ladder to the sky.
>>REGINA: Talk about
what that means
in terms of stacked toruses.
>>TALBOTT: Yeah,
exactly, exactly.
So there's a connection that
brings all of this together,
and it is the upward
winding filament or serpent.
The serpent that winds itself
up this pole of the caduceus.
But 100, 1,000 other
images are suggestive
of an upward spiraling
serpent form.
And I came to the conclusion
based on one parallel
after another suggesting
the connection,
an upward winding
plasma filament divided
into a conical series of cones.
They were actually toruses.
The cones are actually
rotating their toruses.
And then they spread out to
become more definitive toroidal
forms, a stack of toruses.
>>REGINA: And what
do they represent
in the electrical universe?
>>TALBOTT: In the
electric universe,
they are the natural
toroidal form.
But, I mean, who am I
to say that this is all
explicable by plasma physics?
But I knew there was
a plasma connection.
And when Wall Thornhill
came to Portland
ahead of a conference
in September
on the electric universe, and
he was a featured speaker,
I showed him the chain
of arrows imagery.
And he said, Dave, that
has to be plasma discharge.
And I said, well,
what's happening?
And he said, I'll
have to look into it.
Well, that wasn't satisfying.
But we had invited
another man, probably
the most distinguished
plasma scientist
studying high-energy electric
discharge in the plasma
laboratory from Los
Alamos, Anthony Peratt,
invited him to the
same conference.
And it was the most
miraculous dramatic turn
in my whole life of research.
Immediately, in the
wake of Tony's presence
at the conference, we had a
private gathering of speakers.
Tony was really,
really impressed
with what he saw
at the conference,
and that emboldened him
to stand up-- I mean,
12 speakers were
gathered there--
to stand up at that meeting, go
up to this little white board
and describe this enigmatic
or really interesting
form taken by electric discharge
in the plasma laboratory.
And he drew out the
chain of arrows.
>>REGINA: Wow.
>>TALBOTT: It was, I mean--
just even talking about it,
it's kind of like a shiver sort
of a thing, because I just have
this-- I mean, this was 2000.
This was almost 15 years
ago, September 2000.
And, I mean, several
people in the group,
I had already presented the
chain of arrows theme to.
And we were looking
at each other.
And it was just such
an incredible moment.
And I knew it wasn't just that
my life had taken a turn there.
I knew that this
fellow, Tony Peratt,
would never be able to
walk away from this,
when I would say
simply, Tony, you just
drew the chain of arrows.
>>REGINA: So, OK, go ahead, yes.
>>TALBOTT: OK.
It has more to it.
Tony said, well,
how did that form?
And I described upward
spiraling filament
dividing into this
chain of arrows form
that then becomes more--
>>REGINA: Depending on
your point of view, yeah.
>>TALBOTT: Yeah, yeah.
That emerges as a stack
of toruses that was
called the ladder of heaven.
And he said, that is the
evolutionary sequence
of the Peratt Instability.
His colleagues had
named it after him.
>>REGINA: Amazing.
>>TALBOTT: And so, I mean, he
was never the same after that.
And I mean, he was
really never the same.
He gets back to Los Alamos.
He emails me.
He says, I have to
see the rock art.
And I have thousands
of rock art images
that would be useful
in substantiating this,
but I actually
just sent him one.
And it is the
Kayenta pictograph.
And it is the stack of toruses,
but the edges are folded up.
And it has this eye
mask form below.
>>REGINA: We're going to talk
about the eye mask in a moment.
>>TALBOTT: It captures the
entire sequence so beautifully,
the completeness of this
form so beautifully,
I just sent him that.
I just had this
underlying confidence
he didn't need to see more.
And when I sent that to
him, as he described it,
his world ended.
>>REGINA: Amazing.
>>TALBOTT: He knew.
I mean, first, he
was a little fearful
that somebody had come in
and taken something out
of his computer
and gotten to it.
But he got the picture.
It's an authentic pictograph.
And he changed his
life on the spot there.
He mobilized archaeologists
and rock art experts,
and he began logging rock
art around the world.
And what he did was
identify specific forms
in specific regions,
carved on stone,
with a clear indication of
the field of view to the sky,
and so on.
And so, he was able to enter
the data into the Roadrunner
computer at Los Alamos.
This is the most
powerful in the world.
And the computer
was able to diagnose
what was seen from different
portions of the Earth,
different places on Earth.
Now, the story grows
more elaborate.
I have to say, it grows a
little confusing at times,
because of what occurred.
>>REGINA: We'll skip
the confusing part
and get to the image
of what was produced.
>>TALBOTT: So what was produced
was, I mean, for Tony Peratt,
he had no doubt.
Now, he said to
me, Dave, my work
has already confirmed
that you are correct.
And now, I'm out
chronicling the rock art.
And it is substantiating
how fully you
are correct in what
you had reconstructed.
And he told me something
that I had never known.
And it had to do with an
image called the stickman.
And people who followed
our work at all,
they know there is carved on
a rock all over the world,
there are these
stickmen figures.
They look like
they're just standing
like this and their legs like
this with two dots between.
>>REGINA: Right,
under their arms.
>>TALBOTT: Yeah,
And he explained to me
what that image was.
And I said, I never
dreamt of what that was.
I knew it was important,
but I couldn't fit it
into the planetary explanation.
It's something actually
quite close to Earth.
But the amazing thing is
that he made clear to me
that that stickman image is the
collapsed form of the Kayenta
form.
The ladder of heaven with
these various toruses,
in the most violent
phase of that
evolving electric
discharge form,
collapses into the stickman.
And even secondary forms
of stickmen, they get
formed out of this.
So it's very close to the Earth.
It's almost like a super aurora.
And that's what he called it.
It would be higher
than our aurora.
But in the dynamic interaction
between the Earth and planets
close to the Earth, there is
this spectacular stickman form
all over the Earth.
>>REGINA: That's what
the ancients were seeing
with their external vision.
This wasn't an internal vision.
>>TALBOTT: It clearly was
not an internal thing,
because field of view
is absolutely essential.
He showed that
where that was, they
were working with blocks to the
synchrotron radiation, which
would be deadly.
You could be out in the
open in this intense phase,
and you'd die.
The radiation would kill you.
And it was obviously happening.
But there was this
incredible obsession
with recording
the evolving form.
Now, what was on their
minds, causing them
to do this with such dangers?
But they would do
it behind shields.
And he could show that the
shielding was absolutely
essential to the field of view.
So he could work from the field
of view, to the shielding,
to the form carved on the
stone, and it was there.
>>REGINA: And what
was this phenomena
producing functionally in
the sky, in the cosmos?
The collapsing of these toroids
into this effective stickman?
What did that mean to us?
>>TALBOTT: Oh, What
did it mean to us?
>>REGINA: Uh-huh.
Uh-huh, to our atmosphere.
>>TALBOTT: It's very
late in the evolution
of this planetary configuration.
You could call it
the last phase.
You could call it the
phase out of which
a great deal of prehistoric
turmoil occurred
and a great deal of
wandering forms in the sky.
Now, see, we didn't
talk about what
happened to the
forms in the sky when
the pristine imagery of the
polar configuration broke down.
But that's a phase of wandering.
And these bodies actually
wandered to different places.
>>REGINA: So everything was
kind of knocked off-kilter.
>>TALBOTT: Yeah,
everything was off-kilter.
And what was seen only in
the Northern Hemisphere,
because it was aligned to
the polar axis of the Earth
and centered on the
celestial pole from Earth,
people in the
Southern Hemisphere
wouldn't see that part
around the celestial pole.
But when you break down
that configuration,
and these bodies
have wandered off,
this is the wandering
of the gods.
You know how Isis,
when she wanders,
and your wildly disheveled
hair, and so on,
and ends up in the desert.
These are kind of
localized symbols
of this desert in the sky,
this chaos in the sky that
had ensued.
>>REGINA: The world
had lost its bearings.
>>TALBOTT: Yeah, the world
had lost its bearings would
be a good phrase for that.
And then the forms
are being seen then
in the Southern Hemisphere.
Now imagine that you are an
occupant of Easter Island.
And you have a northern horizon.
You've not been witness to
much of the activity that
was going on in the pole.
But what is occurring is these
spectacular forms are emerging.
It's almost like up
out of the ocean.
And if you look at the
eye mask formed and the--
>>REGINA: Tell us
about the eye mask.
I really like this one as well.
>>TALBOTT: OK, now,
so here I am talking,
trying to use
gesture to describe
what something looked like.
But you have a stack of
toruses along a central spine.
And at the base, you have,
just imagine an eye mask form.
And it is a toroidal form.
It's like a donut, and you're
looking into the donut.
So when you're looking at a
certain angle in relationship
to that hollow interior, you
get the appearance of a hollow.
So that was the--
see this is, you're
looking into an inner tube,
but it's something like that.
>>REGINA: And a lot of this
is depicted around the planet.
>>TALBOTT: It's one of the most
common symbols in the world.
And this reconstruction
simply connects it
to the ladder of heaven.
And, if you look at the eye
mask forms in Easter Island,
they have a kind of an
aquatic nuance to them.
Because they were
imagining these things
rising up into the sky.
Whereas things they hadn't
seen before but rising up
out of the water.
You get this aquatic
nuance to their rock art.
But in the Southern
Hemisphere, these forms
were clearly recorded.
You'll see them in Southern
Africa and elsewhere.
So that is a story
of what happened
to the chain of arrows.
It became the ladder
of the sky, and it
collapsed into the stickman
form, which becomes then
a fundamental validation
of the plasma discharge
interpretation of this highly
energetic electrical activity.
>>REGINA: So there must have
been a big blast of radiation.
>>TALBOTT: Yeah, yeah.
Synchrotron radiation is the
most intense form of radiation.
It's actually occurring along
the whole electromagnetic
spectrum, up to gamma
rays, and so on.
>>REGINA: But at this time, when
this would have been recorded,
this kind of burst of
energy would have done what
to the life forms here?
>>TALBOTT: Well, it probably
destroyed a great deal of life
on Earth.
I mean, I would just think
that would be definite.
Some would find shelter.
I mean, there's this issue.
Why do people take shelter
in caves and dolmans?
>>REGINA: For long
periods of time?
>>TALBOTT: Yeah, apparently,
for long periods of time.
And what did that mean?
Why was that?
There was, in connection with
this, two primary perils--
falling debris--
I mean, remember,
these planets were discharging
profoundly and electrically.
So surfaces of planets like
Mars were being excavated.
I mean, we can see that
the northern hemisphere
of Mars, the crust is not
a distortion of the planet.
The crust was actually
excavated six miles deep.
And that material, that
rocky material, a lot of it
fell on Earth, which is one of
the reasons why scientists are
increasingly identifying
Martian atmosphere and Martian
meteorites.
They say, meteorites from Mars.
Well, the ancients said
meteorites came from Mars.
That study has been
really quite thorough.
I should cite, if anybody's
interested in following
meteorites from Mars-- and
what an interesting thought
that a planet, Mars, actually
could be the source of so much
meteoric material-- but
his name is F. Cochran.
And he read my book, "The
Saturn Myth" in 1980,
and we became partners.
So I have collaborators in
one direction and another.
But F. Cochran really documented
well the Martian origin
of meteorites.
It's just an instance
of a perfect fit.
>>REGINA: Yeah, and
interestingly, in somewhat more
modern history, the
Babylonians were obsessively
speaking about this danger.
And this was depicted
a lot in their--
>>TALBOTT: Oh, no
question about it.
And Babylonian
texts, well, along
with the Egyptian sources,
are amongst the most complete
references that one
would want to explore
on many of these issues.
When it comes to the stickman,
and so on, that's so global.
And it's so tied in with what
was going on with rock art,
and tied in with
Tony Peratt's work,
that it stands on its own.
>>REGINA: Let's talk
about another great icon
in history, Horus,
which was originally
considered a cosmic power.
Can you talk about
this a little bit?
>>TALBOTT: Well, the figure
of Horus in Egyptian myth
has so many different roles to
play in this reconstruction.
Because Horus, of course,
is the son of Isis.
And the story of the
impregnation of Isis,
and the wandering of
Isis, and then the birth
of Horus in the papyrus
swamp, all these episodes
are actually part of
the reconstruction
that I've presented
rather fully.
And you see these things
occurring in the sky.
And this has nothing to do with
stickmen or anything like that.
So this is actually back in the
phase of archetypal mythology
reflecting the configuration
of planets close to the Earth.
And Mars was the prototype
of the Warrior-Hero.
And for the Egyptians, Horus
was the preeminent instance
of the Warrior-Heroes.
So everything that they
thought about the great warrior
in antiquity in
Egypt is encapsulated
in the story of Horus, and
the white crown of Horus,
and so many other things.
>>REGINA: And Horus
of the Horizon.
>>TALBOTT: Yeah, well, they
translate Akhet as horizon.
But it literally does
not mean horizon.
And it's a perfect example.
>>REGINA: But what does
horizon mean in that parlance?
>>TALBOTT: It means the
mountain of fire and light.
And it's the great mountain
that I've been talking about.
And it has twin peaks,
so the twin peaks
is the cosmic mountain
or the crescent
that we were talking about.
All this is all interconnected.
And Horus of the Harmachis,
or [EGYPTIAN] in Egyptian,
is intimately associated
with these twin peaks that
are called by translators the
horizon, because they don't
have anything else to point to.
This is the fatal
flaw in attempting
to interpret ancient symbolism
through things occurring today.
Nothing is occurring
today like that.
>>REGINA: No.
And I've always wondered-- this
might be totally off-topic--
if horizon might not have
meant something else, which
is essentially almost
like an event horizon,
if you're listening to
Nassim Harramein, or someone,
coming from one
field into another.
>>TALBOTT: That twin
peak image in Egypt,
it is just so present.
But if it's the
crescent, it's actually
an adaptation of that crescent.
Then that means what?
It means that, well,
if it's the crescent,
it was rotating in the sky with
the cycle of day and night.
So it was one of
those symbolic forms
that I zeroed in on,
because I had realized
the crescent was up there.
OK, that's the horns
of the bull of heaven,
but it was also
called the twin peaks.
Well, now wait a minute.
If the crescent revolved with
the cycle of day and night,
then the twin peaks
weren't earthbound at all.
They were revolving
up there in the sky.
And we'd have to
see them upside down
in the dimming of the cycle,
because the sun's up there.
And that's exactly so.
The inverted peaks mean
the phase of dimming.
And they mean absolutely nothing
in conventional approaches
to Egyptian symbolism.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
Well, OK, so we're going to go
through some more symbolism.
The divine thunderbolt,
what is the myth
behind the divine thunderbolt?
>>TALBOTT: Well, the thunderbolt
is the preferred weapon
of the gods.
But, see, I had
reached a conclusion
that all of these
warrior figures
are so often identified
with their weapon.
They are a form of
themselves of their weapon,
like the hammer of Thor.
Well, the hammer is
inseparable from Thor himself.
The warrior Mars, amongst
the Latins, the warrior Aries
amongst the Greeks, was
inseparable from his weapon.
He was his weapon.
Now, what does that mean?
Well, the weapon
of Mars was a form
in the sky, inseparable
from the appearance
of that sphere of Mars.
And that includes then the polar
column coming down to Earth.
OK, this is the
world mountain theme,
and it is identified
as the sword of Shiva
and other warrior gods.
And that weapon is so clearly
and completely identified
with the Warrior-Hero.
When I got to the thunderbolt,
I thought, well, OK,
what's the connection
of that thunderbolt
to the Warrior-Hero?
Because it wasn't
self-evidently clear to me,
though it was a verified
plasma discharge.
The more I looked
at it, I could see--
it's a little hard to discuss
this without an image in front
of me-- but there actually is a
core to the cosmic thunderbolt.
You look at the vajra or the
dorje, the kongo in Japanese,
the cosmic thunderbolt, it is
an electric discharge form.
And it is around the planet.
It's extended out and in.
The interpretation
I would offer now,
it's extended out
from the planet Mars.
So its identification with
Mars is, I believe, complete.
And so when I saw that
Aries, the planet Mars,
appeared in the sky as
the cosmic thunderbolt,
it made perfect sense.
And you can trace
now the relationship
between the cosmic thunderbolt
and the Warrior-Hero
from one culture to another.
>>REGINA: But it was
seen as a weapon.
>>TALBOTT: It was the hero and
his weapon were inseparable.
So I had made this statement.
I stated it aloud and publicly,
the hero is his weapon,
but whatever the
weapon is called,
whether it's an arrow,
or a sword, or a spear--
>>REGINA: Zeus, whose
spear is lightning.
>>TALBOTT: Yes, yes,
Whatever it is called,
it is actually the
thunderbolt. The thunderbolt
is the prototype.
>>REGINA: But a
thunderbolt equals weapon.
>>TALBOTT: Yeah, exactly.
It is the underlying
identity of all
of the great warriors' weapons.
Now, when I announced
that finding
that all of these
heroes' weapons
were the cosmic
thunderbolt-- there's
variations in the
morphology-- I thought,
actually, I was the
only one on Earth
who would've ever even
dreamt of such a thing.
But then I began to find
that, actually, this
has been studied.
And there's a really
interesting kind
of halfway esoteric philosopher
in French thought, Rene Guenon,
"King of the World," and
other books he wrote.
Under a little
section that he has
in one of his books
on the thunderbolt,
his conclusion was that every
weapon of the Warrior-Hero
was, in its origins,
the thunderbolt.
So through a back door, I
mean, actually, this was
before I ever started my work.
But it had already been stated.
But by following a reasoning
from ancient evidence
concluding that the cosmic
thunderbolt was actually
the essential identity of
the Warrior-Hero, that here,
this relationship to
the cosmic thunderbolt
has been acknowledged,
actually, for decades.
>>REGINA: OK.
And now, let's take it
into practical terms.
What must have the environment
been like at this time when
everyone was depicting
the Warrior-Hero
with his thunderbolt?
What was going on
electrically on this planet,
that this would
need to be captured
over and over and over again?
>>TALBOTT: Well,
I think that his
would have been the phase of
greatest turmoil on Earth.
>>REGINA: So we would
have seen massive amounts
of electrical fire.
>>TALBOTT: I would assume,
and it's possible that certain
things that geologists ascribed
to earlier eons in terms
of scarring on
surfaces of the Earth,
it's possible actually
that there was devastating
electrical activity on Earth--
>>REGINA: That's
what I'm asking.
>>TALBOTT: --to the point
that entire regional cultures
were completely eliminated.
I tend to think
that that's like it.
>>REGINA: It would
have to be, if it's
so prominent in the
mythology, in the pictographs,
and so forth.
It would have to be
something seriously--
>>TALBOTT: Well, certainly,
the most frightful experience
of humanity ever.
And there are episodes of
awe and episodes of terror.
>>REGINA: Electrical
activity could have just
been frying whole regions.
>>TALBOTT: I think
probably that did occur.
And if you want an
illustration of how devastating
that electrical activity
could be on a planet,
the ideal reference for
this is the planet Mars.
Because if people
would pose the question
and will look at
what electricity
can do to a surface, and then
they look at the planet Mars,
they will ultimately
conclude-- this
takes a serious investigation
as to how things
are being explained and how well
the explanations are working.
Well, they're not
working at all,
and electrical discharge
will explain everything
that we observe on
the planet Mars.
Now, in this
reconstruction, the reason
I took an interest in
Mars was that there
were aspects of this
reconstruction that
were suggesting, I
mean, the hero who
wears this conical crown.
And it was suggesting that
this electrical activity
between planets, this white
crown was their mother goddess,
this electrical activity had to
show up on the surface of Mars.
The head of the warrior
is the planet Mars.
And this reconstruction
and that crown going up
toward the mother goddess, the
planet Venus, that would have
had to show up as a huge
hemispheric dichotomy on Mars.
So I started looking.
Now the result of
that was my DVD.
I mean, it was a
full documentary,
"The Lightning
Scarred Planet Mars."
And that involves
much more evidence
than I could possibly
summarize here.
But there are no
surface features of Mars
that really stand
out as anything
other than electric
discharge phenomena.
You could take the great
mound of Mount Olympus.
You could take the huge trench
of Valles Marineris, all
of those sinuous reels
cut across the surface,
the unique cratering
patterns, they just
will not be explained
by things that we
think must have been going on.
And so, most of them just are
left hanging as a mystery.
Do you know that even today,
the most distinguished formation
on Mars is this Valles
Marineris, which
would have reached from like
San Francisco to New York.
I mean, it is this
incredible trench,
And, just an aside,
it's the scar
on the face of the Warrior-Hero.
He is Scarface.
It's the defining scar
by which he's recognized.
OK, so that's the
Valles Marineris.
Now, well, it must have
been cut by water, they say.
But then they look, and they
say, now, wait a minute.
Something on this scale
being cut from water,
you would see evidence of
the outflow everywhere.
There's no evidence
of outflow at all.
But what there is evidence
of, across the entire surface
of Mars, is rubble-- sharply
shattered rubble across
the entire-- you cannot
find a portion of Mars--
>>REGINA: So something violent
would create that, yes.
>>TALBOTT: Oh, man,
the surface of Mars
had to have been sculpted
by this intensely
electrical activity between
Mars and something else.
And it was a planet.
This electrical
activity isn't going
to happen to Mars just
because it's sitting there.
It's going to take
some dynamic--
>>REGINA: It's relating
to something else, yes.
>>TALBOTT: Yeah, and so there's
a reason for looking clearly
at the worldwide myths of
the Warrior-Hero in terms of,
well, was that
electrical activity?
And do we see its
indication on planets?
>>REGINA: Well, going
back to Tony Peratt.
>>TALBOTT: Yes.
>>REGINA: I have a note here.
At Los Alamos, he
discovered these stick forms
that were recording events.
He said that
essentially, to us, if we
can see the Northern
Lights, that
might be the most bold
expression of electricity.
He said these would
be 1,000 times more
energetic than
anything we would see,
such as the Northern Lights.
>>TALBOTT: Or, quite
frankly, 100,000 times more.
I mean, he himself
would say that.
>>REGINA: So-- yeah, go ahead.
>>TALBOTT: Well, that
then gets us again
to the impact on
human imagination,
and the role of fear,
and why they were
carving these images on stone.
Now, to me, it's still
a little enigmatic
why there was this
impulse, this obsession
to record these images on stone.
But I suspect it was
in the neighborhood
of self-protection.
I expect because this form
was evolving in the sky,
and it was very loud, and very
noisy, and it was very fearful,
I just suspect that there
was a sense of tracking,
of knowing what is happening.
What do we look for to
anticipate doomsday?
Because you look at all the
ancient calendar symbolism
and all the ways in which
magic and superstition
were used to anticipate
the return of doomsday.
So there is this active anxiety
on the part of the cultures.
How do we anticipate?
And, I mean, all of
calendar symbolism, people
seem to not be
sufficiently aware of this,
but calendar symbolism
originated in a real need
to anticipate doomsday.
And they played
it out every year.
Every new year was a turn
of the full feel of time.
And, OK, the world just
came to an end, fireworks
and all of that.
And now a new world is
being born out of that.
So that's part of
this imaginative--
>>REGINA: And it's in our
psyche of dream time, even.
>>TALBOTT: I believe so.
I believe that we didn't
free ourselves entirely
biologically, let's say, from
some encoded memory, however
that might [INAUDIBLE].
>>REGINA: Well,
and why should we
assume those cycles
have finished?
That was a cycle.
And now we seem to be relatively
in a state of homeostasis
at the moment.
>>TALBOTT: Yeah, quiet.
>>REGINA: Do we see
anything interesting
happening in the cosmos?
>>TALBOTT: Well, I
don't I think that we
see anything that would suggest
a return of these earlier
experiences.
But we can never write
off the possibility
of the unexpected violent
turn to planetary instability.
But people are not
correct, I would say.
I'll see this in little
writings on forums, and so on.
But when is it going to return?
Well, there is nothing
in heaven or on Earth
that says that that prior
experience is going to return.
I mean, why would we
want to even think
that it would return?
We don't know what's
around the bend cosmically.
The world is not the
entirely safe place.
Intruders coming in capable
of completely wiping out
civilization are not excluded by
scientific investigation, now.
>>REGINA: Right.
And, as we're running
down on time here,
I mean, this is so deeply
encoded in all of us,
not only the fear
of apocalyptic times
but also the iconography
in our direct experience
as electrical beings
with electrical circuitry
that allows us to even
access greater mind.
All of that is through
electrical signals.
So we're intricately
biologically
plugged in to this.
>>TALBOTT: Well,
in recent years,
we've taken particular interest
in the electricity of life.
Now, there is the
electricity of life
which gets you
kind of concretely
into the nature of water,
and structured water,
and cellular behavior, and
the electrical activity
within cells, which is
really, at that scale,
it's a very powerful
electrical activity.
We have all of that
on the one hand.
But we have also a more esoteric
tradition that comes down,
and it sees a human
being in terms
of these archetypal images,
energy centers, and Kundalini
experience.
And, well, what
is the connection
of that to that
primeval experience?
And I would just go this far.
I use the phrase,
"the great analogy."
That formation in
the sky, retreat back
to that cosmic
wheel, for example.
That cosmic wheel had
within it the seeds
of the entire
myth-making epoch-- what
happens to the hero, what
happens to the goddess, what
happens to the overarching
Saturnian figure, the dying
god, the displaced, the
removed god, and so on.
All of these images
take you back
to a unified image of a
celebrated form, the wheel
of life, the wheel of law.
Well, why life?
Why law?
The thing is, it was
the great analogy.
So whatever was needed
within a culture,
they had to find the analogy
in the inherited tradition.
Because it was
the truth speaking
to us across these generations.
And you didn't trivialize it.
It's the truth.
So all of humanity was
looking for its guidance
from the great analogy.
So the lawgiver, he
had his archetypal form
in the Warrior-Hero
as judge and lawgiver.
And the queen of the kingdom,
or whatever, the queen
was the representation of
the mother goddess figure.
And everything in terms of
the structure of the city,
the structure of the town,
the structure of the temple,
the way we went to war,
the weapons we used in war,
our ideas about our enemies,
the fiends of chaos,
they all are finding their
analogs in formations,
both structured and chaotic,
in this primeval time.
So that's the role
of the great analogy
in affecting all of humanity
for thousands of years.
Now, where did
humanity wander off
of that kind of
symbolic connection
into spiritual discernment?
There is an evolution
of human consciousness
toward spiritual discernment
that isn't dependent on myth.
So that's never, I
have to say this--
>>REGINA: It's another
overlay of consciousness
overall, that you have to
go into another realm there.
I mean, here, I have
these notes here.
In the ancient test, the life
principles in Anima Mundi
are electricity.
They're the vivifiers under the
divine will of the architect.
>>TALBOTT: Yes.
>>REGINA: Consciousness.
Yes.
>>TALBOTT: There's a
spiritual orientation
to which many people who
have preoccupied themselves
with the mythic
traditions, they found
particularly deep interest in
a spiritual vision of life.
And, I mean, where did
the imagery of the yogi
come from, for example?
I mean, he emerges out of myth,
and he brings a consciousness
of something that is not myth.
And you could say the
same thing about Jesus.
Jesus was born into
a culture dominated
by ritual, and
sacrifice, and all manner
of primitive symbolism.
>>REGINA: So we
have to say there
is a grand conscious
overlay to all of this
that we can't even get
into in this discussion.
And I guess to
simplify it before we
wrap our discussion
up, everything
is dependent upon
this spark of life.
Once our electrical
signals cease to fire,
we no longer exist in a physical
level in this dimension.
>>TALBOTT: I'll accept
that completely, yes.
>>REGINA: And we thank
you for your life's work,
bringing all of this imagery
together to see it makes sense.
Something happened.
We remember it.
We fear it.
Our ancestors drew about it.
They talked about it.
Now the laboratories are
showing us exactly what
that phenomena was.
>>TALBOTT: This is true.
>>REGINA: And it's just an
amazing convergence of science
and an ancient understanding.
And you're right at
the epicenter of that.
>>TALBOTT: Well,
thank you very much.
>>REGINA: Thank
you so much, David.
>>TALBOTT: All right, bye now.
See you, now.
>>REGINA: I hope you enjoyed
this journey into the heavens
of our ancestors and back.
You can tune into David's
work at thunderbolts.info.
It's a story that's
evolving by the day
as more scientists
step out of the closet
and share their astounding
discoveries under microscopes
and in the super
scopes of space.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[MUSIC PLAYING]